docs/index.rst, before:

.. .. image:: _static/goes2go_logo.png

.. This drop-shadow glow on the logo helps when in Darkmode

.. raw:: html

   <img src="_static/goes2go_logo.png" style="filter: drop-shadow(0px 0px 100px #ffffff28)">


=======================
GOES-2-Go Documentation
=======================

GOES-2-Go is a python package that helps you download GOES-R series (GOES-East/16 and GOES-West/17/18) NetCDF files from the `Amazon Web Services <https://registry.opendata.aws/noaa-goes/>`_ archive.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   /user_guide/index
   /reference_guide/index


Install
-------

Install goes2go in a conda environment. You may use this minimum `environment.yml
<https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go/blob/main/environment.yml>`_ file and create the environment with the following...

.. code:: bash

   # Create the environment
   conda env create -f environment.yml

   # Update the environment
   conda env update -f environment.yml

   # Activate the environment
   conda activate goes2go


Capabilities
------------

Download and Read Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First, create a GOES object to specify the satellite, data product, and domain you are interested in. The example below downloads the Multi-Channel Cloud Moisture Imagery for CONUS.

.. code-block:: python

   from goes2go import GOES

   # ABI Multi-Channel Cloud Moisture Imagry Product
   G = GOES(satellite=16, product="ABI-L2-MCMIP", domain='C')

   # Geostationary Lightning Mapper
   G = GOES(satellite=17, product="GLM-L2-LCFA", domain='C')

   # ABI Level 1b Data
   G = GOES(satellite=17, product="ABI-L1b-Rad", domain='F')


.. note:: A complete listing of the products available are available at `here <https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go/blob/main/goes2go/product_table.txt>`_.

There are methods to do the following:

* List the available files for a time range
* Download data to your local drive for a specified time range
* Read the data into an xarray Dataset for a specific time

.. code-block:: python

   # Produce a pandas DataFrame of the available files in a time range
   df = G.df(start='2022-07-04 01:00', end='2022-07-04 01:30')


.. code-block:: python

   # Download and read the data as an xarray Dataset nearest a specific time
   ds = G.nearesttime('2022-01-01')

.. code-block:: python

   # Download and read the latest data as an xarray Dataset
   ds = G.latest()

.. code-block:: python

   # Download data for a specified time range
   G.timerange(start='2022-06-01 00:00', end='2022-06-01 01:00')

   # Download recent data for a specific interval
   G.timerange(recent='30min')


- `📖 Download latest <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/DEMO_download_goes_nearesttime.html>`_
- `📖 Download nearest time <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/DEMO_download_goes_latest.html>`_
- `📖 Download time series <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/DEMO_download_goes_timerange.html>`_


RGB Recipes for ABI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Generate RGB arrays for different RGB products. Check out the following notebook for a demonstration:

- `📖 RGB Recipes Docs <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/reference_guide/index.html#rgb-recipes>`_

.. figure:: _static/TrueColor.png
   :class: img-fluid

ABI TrueColor RGB image

Field of View
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Advanced Baseline Imager (ABI)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
GOES-West is centered over -137 W and GOES-East is centered over -75 W. When GOES was being tested, it was in a "central" position, outlined in the dashed black line. Below is the ABI field of view for the full disk:

- `📓 ABI field of view notebook <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/field-of-view_ABI.html>`_

.. figure:: _static/ABI_field-of-view.png
   :class: img-fluid

.. figure:: _static/ABI_field-of-view_16dom.png
   :class: img-fluid

.. figure:: _static/ABI_field-of-view_17dom.png
   :class: img-fluid

   ABI full disk field of view

Geostationary Lightning Mapper (GLM)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The GLM field of view is slightly smaller and limited by a bounding box. The field of view can be estimated.

- `📓 GLM field of view notebook <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/field-of-view_GLM.html>`_
- `📓 More details on actual edges <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/field-of-view_GLM_Edges.html>`_

.. figure:: _static/GLM_field-of-view.png
   :class: img-fluid

   Approximate GLM field of view


Useful Links
------------
- `👨🏻‍💻 Brian's GitHub notebooks <https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go/tree/master/notebooks>`_
- `🎠 Beginner's Guide <https://www.goes-r.gov/downloads/resources/documents/Beginners_Guide_to_GOES-R_Series_Data.pdf>`_
- `📔 GOES-R Series Data Book <https://www.goes-r.gov/downloads/resources/documents/GOES-RSeriesDataBook.pdf>`_
- `💻 Rammb Slider GOES Viewer <https://rammb-slider.cira.colostate.edu/>`_
- `🐍 Unidata Plot GOES Data <https://unidata.github.io/python-training/gallery/mapping_goes16_truecolor/>`_
- `🗺 Plotting tips form geonetcast blog <https://geonetcast.wordpress.com/2019/08/02/plot-0-5-km-goes-r-full-disk-regions/>`_
- `🐍 glmtools <https://github.com/deeplycloudy/glmtools/>`_ For useful tools for GLM data.
- `⏲ Mesoscale Sector Historical Archive <https://www.ssec.wisc.edu/datacenter/plot-mesoscales/mesoscales/>`_ shows maps of where mesoscale scans were at each time.
- `🗺 CIMSS Gridding GLM Tool <http://cimss.ssec.wisc.edu/csppgeo/gridded-glm_v1.0b1.html>`_

💾 Data Access
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Access GOES data through NOAA's Big Data Project partners

- `Amazon Web Services <https://registry.opendata.aws/noaa-goes/>`_

   - `🌐 Brian's Interactive GOES Download Page <http://home.chpc.utah.edu/~u0553130/Brian_Blaylock/cgi-bin/goes16_download.cgi>`_
   - `🗃 AWS GOES-16 S3 Explorer <https://noaa-goes16.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html>`_
   - `🗃 AWS GOES-17 S3 Explorer <https://noaa-goes17.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html>`_

- `Microsoft Azure <https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/open-datasets/catalog/goes-16/>`_ (Only GOES-16??)
- Google Cloud Platform (`GOES-16 <https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/noaa-public/goes-16>`_ | `GOES-17 <https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/noaa-public/goes-17>`_)

- `Download GOES data with rclone <https://github.com/blaylockbk/pyBKB_v3/blob/master/rclone_howto.md>`_

Data Quality
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `⛑ GOES-17 ABI Data Quality (CIMSS) <http://cimss.ssec.wisc.edu/goes-r/abi-/band_statistics_imagery.html>`_

Commit message:

Update docs after publishing on conda-forge Fixes #36

docs/index.rst, after:

.. .. image:: _static/goes2go_logo.png

.. This drop-shadow glow on the logo helps when in Darkmode

.. raw:: html

   <img src="_static/goes2go_logo.png" style="filter: drop-shadow(0px 0px 100px #ffffff28)">


=======================
GOES-2-Go Documentation
=======================

GOES-2-Go is a python package that helps you download GOES-R series (GOES-East/16 and GOES-West/17/18) NetCDF files from the `Amazon Web Services <https://registry.opendata.aws/noaa-goes/>`_ archive.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   /user_guide/index
   /reference_guide/index


Install
-------

The easiest way to install ``goes2go`` and its dependencies is with Conda from conda-forge.

.. code:: bash

   conda install -c conda-forge goes2go


You may also create the provided Conda environment file `environment.yml
<https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go/blob/main/environment.yml>`_.

.. code:: bash

   # Create the environment
   conda env create -f environment.yml

   # Update the environment
   conda env update -f environment.yml

   # Activate the environment
   conda activate goes2go

Alternatively, ``goes2go`` is published on PyPI and you can install it with pip, but it requires some additional dependencies that you will have to install yourself:

- Python 3.8+
- Cartopy, which requires GEOS and Proj.
- MetPy
- Optional: Carpenter Workshop

When those are installed within your environment, then you can install GOES-2-go with pip.

.. code:: bash

   # Latest published version
   pip install goes2go

   # ~~ or ~~

   # Most recent changes
   pip install git+https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go.git


Capabilities
------------

Download and Read Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First, create a GOES object to specify the satellite, data product, and domain you are interested in. The example below downloads the Multi-Channel Cloud Moisture Imagery for CONUS.

.. code-block:: python

   from goes2go import GOES

   # ABI Multi-Channel Cloud Moisture Imagry Product
   G = GOES(satellite=16, product="ABI-L2-MCMIP", domain='C')

   # Geostationary Lightning Mapper
   G = GOES(satellite=17, product="GLM-L2-LCFA", domain='C')

   # ABI Level 1b Data
   G = GOES(satellite=17, product="ABI-L1b-Rad", domain='F')


.. note:: A complete listing of the products available are available at `here <https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go/blob/main/goes2go/product_table.txt>`_.

There are methods to do the following:

* List the available files for a time range
* Download data to your local drive for a specified time range
* Read the data into an xarray Dataset for a specific time

.. code-block:: python

   # Produce a pandas DataFrame of the available files in a time range
   df = G.df(start='2022-07-04 01:00', end='2022-07-04 01:30')


.. code-block:: python

   # Download and read the data as an xarray Dataset nearest a specific time
   ds = G.nearesttime('2022-01-01')

.. code-block:: python

   # Download and read the latest data as an xarray Dataset
   ds = G.latest()

.. code-block:: python

   # Download data for a specified time range
   G.timerange(start='2022-06-01 00:00', end='2022-06-01 01:00')

   # Download recent data for a specific interval
   G.timerange(recent='30min')


- `📖 Download latest <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/DEMO_download_goes_nearesttime.html>`_
- `📖 Download nearest time <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/DEMO_download_goes_latest.html>`_
- `📖 Download time series <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/DEMO_download_goes_timerange.html>`_


RGB Recipes for ABI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Generate RGB arrays for different RGB products. Check out the following notebook for a demonstration:

- `📖 RGB Recipes Docs <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/reference_guide/index.html#rgb-recipes>`_

.. figure:: _static/TrueColor.png
   :class: img-fluid

ABI TrueColor RGB image

Field of View
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Advanced Baseline Imager (ABI)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
GOES-West is centered over -137 W and GOES-East is centered over -75 W. When GOES was being tested, it was in a "central" position, outlined in the dashed black line. Below is the ABI field of view for the full disk:

- `📓 ABI field of view notebook <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/field-of-view_ABI.html>`_

.. figure:: _static/ABI_field-of-view.png
   :class: img-fluid

.. figure:: _static/ABI_field-of-view_16dom.png
   :class: img-fluid

.. figure:: _static/ABI_field-of-view_17dom.png
   :class: img-fluid

   ABI full disk field of view

Geostationary Lightning Mapper (GLM)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The GLM field of view is slightly smaller and limited by a bounding box. The field of view can be estimated.

- `📓 GLM field of view notebook <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/field-of-view_GLM.html>`_
- `📓 More details on actual edges <https://blaylockbk.github.io/goes2go/_build/html/user_guide/notebooks/field-of-view_GLM_Edges.html>`_

.. figure:: _static/GLM_field-of-view.png
   :class: img-fluid

   Approximate GLM field of view


Useful Links
------------
- `👨🏻‍💻 Brian's GitHub notebooks <https://github.com/blaylockbk/goes2go/tree/master/notebooks>`_
- `🎠 Beginner's Guide <https://www.goes-r.gov/downloads/resources/documents/Beginners_Guide_to_GOES-R_Series_Data.pdf>`_
- `📔 GOES-R Series Data Book <https://www.goes-r.gov/downloads/resources/documents/GOES-RSeriesDataBook.pdf>`_
- `💻 Rammb Slider GOES Viewer <https://rammb-slider.cira.colostate.edu/>`_
- `🐍 Unidata Plot GOES Data <https://unidata.github.io/python-training/gallery/mapping_goes16_truecolor/>`_
- `🗺 Plotting tips form geonetcast blog <https://geonetcast.wordpress.com/2019/08/02/plot-0-5-km-goes-r-full-disk-regions/>`_
- `🐍 glmtools <https://github.com/deeplycloudy/glmtools/>`_ For useful tools for GLM data.
- `⏲ Mesoscale Sector Historical Archive <https://www.ssec.wisc.edu/datacenter/plot-mesoscales/mesoscales/>`_ shows maps of where mesoscale scans were at each time.
- `🗺 CIMSS Gridding GLM Tool <http://cimss.ssec.wisc.edu/csppgeo/gridded-glm_v1.0b1.html>`_

💾 Data Access
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Access GOES data through NOAA's Big Data Project partners

- `Amazon Web Services <https://registry.opendata.aws/noaa-goes/>`_

   - `🌐 Brian's Interactive GOES Download Page <http://home.chpc.utah.edu/~u0553130/Brian_Blaylock/cgi-bin/goes16_download.cgi>`_
   - `🗃 AWS GOES-16 S3 Explorer <https://noaa-goes16.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html>`_
   - `🗃 AWS GOES-17 S3 Explorer <https://noaa-goes17.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html>`_

- `Microsoft Azure <https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/open-datasets/catalog/goes-16/>`_ (Only GOES-16??)
- Google Cloud Platform (`GOES-16 <https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/noaa-public/goes-16>`_ | `GOES-17 <https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/noaa-public/goes-17>`_)

- `Download GOES data with rclone <https://github.com/blaylockbk/pyBKB_v3/blob/master/rclone_howto.md>`_

Data Quality
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `⛑ GOES-17 ABI Data Quality (CIMSS) <http://cimss.ssec.wisc.edu/goes-r/abi-/band_statistics_imagery.html>`_
